## **Problem Statement**


### Business Context



In today's dynamic business landscape, organizations are increasingly recognizing the pivotal role customer feedback plays in shaping the trajectory of their products and services. The ability to swiftly and effectively respond to customer input not only fosters enhanced customer experiences but also serves as a catalyst for growth, prolonged customer engagement, and the nurturing of lifetime value relationships. As a dedicated Product Manager or Product Analyst, staying attuned to the voice of your customers is not just a best practice; it's a strategic imperative.

While your organization may be inundated with a wealth of customer-generated feedback and support tickets, your role entails much more than just processing these inputs. To make your efforts in managing customer experience and expectations truly impactful, you need a structured approach – a method that allows you to discern the most pressing issues, set priorities, and allocate resources judiciously. One of the most effective strategies at your disposal is to harness the power of Support Ticket Categorization.




### Objective

Develop an advanced support ticket categorization system that accurately classifies incoming tickets, assigns relevant tags based on their content, implements mechanisms and generate the first response based on the sentiment for prioritizing tickets for prompt resolution.


## **Actionable Insights and Recommendations**


- We used an LLM to do multiple tasks one step at a time

    1. We first categorized the support tickets into various categories using the LLM
    2. We then identified the key tags in the ticket text that aids the classification into different categories and got the output in a JSON format from the LLM for ease-of-access
    3. Next, we identified the priority of the ticket text as well as Estimated Time of Arrival (ETA) of specific tickets from the support ticket text.
    4. Finally, in addition to all the above, we also got a response we can share with the customer based on their review.

- The ETA response can be further categorized. If the ticket contains text like Urgent or similar synonyms, the ETA should be Emergency. Else it should be classified as normal, and then added to the ticket queue.

- We shortened the response generated by the model due to the dataframe structure. However, we can automate the full generated model response in an email to reply to the customers ticket.

- One can manually label the data (Category, Tags, Priority, and ETA of different aspects) and then compare the model's output with the same to get a quantitative measure of the models performance.

- To try and improve the model performance, one can try the following:
    1. Update the prompt
    2. Update the model parameters (`temparature`, `top_p`, ...)





























